♪♪
>>> ON THIS EDITION FOR
MAY 17th, A NEW ATTACK BY THEU
TERROR GROUP THAT ABDUCTED
HUNDREDS OF NIGERIAN
SCHOOLGIRLS.
>>> IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT
FROM OHIO, THE BATTLE OVER
TRAFFIC CAMERAS, MAKING THEU
ROADS SAFER OR PENALIZINGw
DRIVERS UNFAIRLY?
>> IT'S ALL ABOUT REVENUE, AND
THAT'S NOT WHAT'S SUPPOSED TO BE
ABOUT.
>> DO WE HAVE LESS FOLKS, TRYING
TO BEAT THE YELLOW LIGHT?
AND THE ANSWER IS YES,
ABSOLUTELY.n
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS AT
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK.n
>> GOOD EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
WESTERN AND AFRICAN LEADERS METD
IN PARIS TODAY TO DEVISE A
STRATEGY TO FIGHT BOKO HARAM,L
THE ISLAMIC EXTREMISTS GROUP
RESPONSIBLE FOR THE ABDUCTION OF
HUNDREDS OF NIGERIAN
SCHOOLGIRLS.
EVEN AS THEY MET, THEY WEREU
RESPONSIBLE FOR ADDITIONAL
TERROR ATTACKS IN AFRICA.n
TEN CHINESE WORKERS WERE SEIZEDD
AT A CAMP INSIDE CAMEROON.
AND A SIMILAR NUMBER OF PEOPLE
WERE KILLED ON THE OTHER SIDE OF
THE BORDER IN NIGERIA.
FOR MORE, WE HAVE A REPORT B
PARIS BY SIMON ISRAEL.
>> Reporter: UNABLE TO TRAVEL TO
MEET THE CAPTIVE GIRLS' FAMILIES
IN HIS OWN COUNTRY, THE NIGERIAN
PRESIDENT MANAGED TO MAKE IT TO
PARIS TODAY.
HE WAS ONE OF FIVE WEST AFRICANn
HEADS OF STATES TO ATTEND.
THE DANGERS POSED TO THE REGIONn
OF BOKO HARAM HAVE FINALLY
BROUGHT THEM TOGETHER.
>> Translator: WE HAVE
IDENTIFIED THE THREAT OF BOKO
HARAM.
WE HAVE UNDERSTOOD ITS LINKS
WITH OTHER TERRORIST MOVEMENTS
IN AFRICA, AND WE HAVE SEEN WHAT
THIS ORGANIZATION WAS CAPABLEU
OF.n
>> BRING BACK --
>> OUR GIRLS&
>> THE REST OF THE WORLD IS3
WAITING FOR NEWS ON THE SEARCH
FOR THE ABDUCTED SCHOOLGIRLS.n
TODAY SAW ANOTHER PROTESTD
OUTSIDE THE NIGERIAN EMBASSY INn
LONDON.n
>> THIS MAY BE A TINY STAND IN
THE GLOBAL AWARENESS CAMPAIGN,
BUT THERE'S BEEN NO PROGRESS.n
THEY'VE SEEN NO PROGRESS IN AN
ATTEMPTS TO GET THE CAPTIVEU
GIRLS RELEASED.n
>> BOKO HARAM --
>> BUT IN PARIS, LITTLE WAS3
OFFERED TO DEVELOPMENTS.
THERE WERE JUST PROMISES.n
>> WE'VE BEEN SCANNING THE AREAS
WITH SURVEILLANCE, AIRCRAFT ANDD
ALSO USING LOCAL INTELLIGENCE.
THIS HAS BEEN COMPLEMENTED NOW
BY FRANCE, UK, U.S., AND OTHER
COUNTRIES.
>> THE SUMMIT ENDED WITH A
DECLARATION OF WAR ON THEU
ISLAMIST KIDNAPPERS BOKO HARAM,L
NOW SEEN AS AL QAEDA AFFILIATES3
AND NOT JUST BY NIGERIA, BUT
ALSO ITS NEIGHBORING COUNTRIES,L
WITH ALL THEIR POROUS BORDERS.
>> WHEN THEY CROSS THE BORDERS
INTO OUR COMMUNITIES, AND RUNn
BACK TO CAMEROON,L
INTERNATIONALLY, NIGERIANn
MILITARY CANNOT MOVE INTO
CAMEROON EXCEPT YOU TAKE SPECIAL
PERMISSION.n
THERE'S NO ROOM FOR YOU TO TAKEU
PERMISSION TO ENTER.
>> THERE WAS AN ACKNOWLEDGEMENTD
TOO THAT THE BOKO HARAM POSES &
THREAT TO THE WEST.n
THIS WEEK A KEY FIGURE ARRESTEDD
IN SUDAN WAS EDUCATED IN WALES.n
HE'S SUSPECTED OF ORGANIZING
BOMB ATTACKS IN NIGERIA AND HADD
BEEN MONITORED AT TIMES BY
BRITISH SECURITY SERVICES.
BUT IT'S THE FACE OF THE
SCHOOLGIRLS THAT MATTERS THE
MOST.n
AND NIGERIA WILL BE JUDGED --]
>>> TURKISH RESCUE WORKERS TODAY
RETRIEVED THE BODIES OF THE LAST
TWO MEN KILLED IN THE MINE FIREU
EARLIER THIS WEEK.
THE DEATH TOLL IS 301.
485 PEOPLE SURVIVED THEI
COUNTRY'S WORST INDUSTRIAL
DISASTER
THE INCIDENT HAS SPARKED
DEMONSTRATIONS ACROSS TH
COUNTRY OVER THE LACK OF SAFET
REGULATIONS.
>>> A FEDERAL JUDGE IN
WASHINGTON HAS HALTED THE U.S.
MILITARY'S FORCE FEEDING OF &
SYRIAN PRISONER ON A HUNGER"
STRIKE
THE RESTRAINING ORDER WILL
REMAIN IN PLACE UNTIL A HEARING
WEDNESDAY.
A U.S. APPEALS COURT RULED THATD
PRISONERS HAD THE RIGHT TOO SUEU
OVER THE PRACTICE.
LAST YEAR, 46 OF THE 166
PRISONERS HELD AT GUANTANAMO WAS
FORCE FED.
THE PROCEDURE INVOLVES FEEDING
THEM LIQUID THROUGH TUBES3
INSERTED IN THEIR NOSES AND INTO
THEIR STOMACHS
>>> COLORADO BECAME THE FIRSTD
STATE TO LET TERMINALLY ILLL
PATIENTS TO TRY EXPERIMENTAL
DRUGS WITHOUT FDA APPROVAL.n
THE RIGHT TO TRY BILL WAS SIGNED
THIS AFTERNOON.
SIMILAR LAW IS EXPECTED IN OTHER
STATES SOON.
>>> A JUDGE IN NORTH CAROLIN&
STRUCK DOWN A LAW THAT WOULD
ENDED TENURE FOR TEACHERS IN THE
STATE.
IN ISSUING THE RULING, THE JUDGE
SAID THE LAW PASSED LAST SUMMER"
VIOLATES CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHTS
AND PROTECTING GOVERNMENT FROM
TAKING A PERSON'S PROPERTY.n
>>> FIREFIGHTERS GOT A BOOST
TODAY IN CONTAINING WILDFIRES IN
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA.
SINCE TUESDAY, FLAMES IS SCORC&
NEARLY 30,000 ACRES, DESTROYINGw
HOMES AND FORCING EVACUATIONS.
ON FRIDAY A SUSPECT PLEADED NOTD
GUILTY TO CHARGES HE SET ONE OFf
THE SMALLER BLAZES.
TWO OTHERS HAVE BEEN ARRESTED ON
SUSPICION OF ARSON.
>>> PRESIDENT OBAMA WILL
NOMINATE JULIAN CASTRO AS THEU
NEXT 68 OF HOUSING AND URBAN
DEVELOPMENT.
THE THREE-TERM MAYOR IS OFTENn
MENTIONED AS A POSSIBLE VICE
PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE IN 2016.
>>> THE POSTAL SERVICE IS ABOUT
TO ISSUE A STAMP HONORING HARVEY
MILK.
HE WAS ON THE BOARD OF
SUPERVISORS AND WAS ONE OF THE
FIRST TO BE OPENLY GAY.
HE WAS ASSASSINATED.
THE STAMP WILL BE UNVEILED AT
WHITE HOUSE CEREMONY NEXT WEEK
>>> AND AFTER 60 YEARS IN RADIO,
CARL KASELL HAS RETIRED.
HE STARTED IN RADIO AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF NC WITH HI
CLASSMATE CHARLES KURALT
HE WAS PART OF NPR'S MORNING
EDITION FOR 30 YEARS AND BECAMEU
SOMETHING OF A CULT FAVORITE ONn
THE WEEKLY COMMEDy QUIZ SHOW.n
WAIT WAIT, DON'T TELL ME
HIS LAST APPEARANCE WAS TODAY.
[ APPLAUSE ]
>> WE THOUGHT ABOUT DOING AN
HOUR-LONG SPECIAL OF NOTHING BUT
TRIBUTES TO CARL, AND WE COULD
DO THAT, BELIEVE ME.
BUT WE WANTED TO SEND CARL OUT
THE WAY HE WANTS, BY SIMPL
DOING A GOOD RADIO SHOW.
>> WHY START NOW, PETER?
[ LAUGHTER ]
♪♪
>>> WE WANT TO GO MORE DEEPL
TONIGHT INTO A SIGNIFICANT STORY
THAT YESTERDAY, THE GOVERNMENT
FINE AGAINST GENERAL MOTORS FOR"
ITS SLOW RESPONSE REPORTING &
SAFETY PROBLEM LINKED TO 133
DEATHS.n
FOR MORE WE ARE JOINED FROM]
PHOENIX, ARIZONA.n
JUST REMIND PEOPLE WHAT THIS
CASE IS ALL ABOUT.
>> RIGHT, SO THESE INVOLVEDD
GENERAL MOTORS VEHICLES,
SATURNS, PONTIACS ANDD
CHEVROLETS, STARTED TO BE BUILTD
IN 2002, OLDER MODELS GENERALL
MOTORS' CARS.n
THERE'S A PIN IN THE IGNITIONn
THAT CAN COME LOOSE.
IF THAT HAPPENS, THE CAR CAN
SWITCH ITSELF OFF, ESSENTIALLY.n
WHEN THAT HAPPENS, PEOPLE COULDD
LOSE CONTROL OF THE CAR.
AND IF THE IGNITION IS OFF, YOUR
AIRBAGS DON'T WORK.n
SO THAT'S THE BIGGEST ISSUEU
HERE, THE SUDDEN LOSS OF
CONTROL, THIS SUDDEN LOSS OF
POWER, AND IF YOU DO GET IN &
CRASH, WHICH COULD HAPPEN IF YOU
LOSE THE IGNITION, YOUR AIRBAGS3
WON'T COME ON.
SO IT'S A VERY SCARY SITUATION
FOR THE PEOPLE WHO HAVE BEEN
INVOLVED IN THESE ACCIDENTS ANDD
13 PEOPLE HAVE DIED.
>> IT'S A HUGE AMOUNT OF MONEY.n
THE SENATOR CALLS IT A PARKING
TICKET.n
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
THIS FINE IS ACTUALLY THE LIMI
THE GOVERNMENT CAN CHARGE &
COMPANY FOR FAILING TO RELEASE
INFORMATION ABOUT RECALLS.
THERE ARE PROPOSALS TO RAISE I
TO SOMETHING AROUND $100
MILLION.
SO IF THE NEW BILL WENT THROUGH,
GM WOULD HAVE PAID A MUCH HIGHER
FINE.n
IN THIS CASE, THIS IS ALL TH
GOVERNMENT CAN CHARGE.
>> SO BESIDES THE FINE, WHAT
ABOUT THE MONTHLY MEETINGS THE
HAVE TO HAVE WITH REGULATORS
ABOUT EVERY SAFETY ISSUE UNDER
THE SUN THEY'RE DEALING WITH?
>> MY FRIEND AT AUTOMOTIVE NEWS3
SAYS GM WAS PUT ON A SHORT
LEASH.
SO THIS IS UNPRECEDENTED IN TERM
OF ONE OF THE DETROIT CARMAKERS.
GENERAL MOTORS HAS TO BASICALL
REPORT IN.
IT'S ALMOST LIKE IT'S ON PAROL
WITH THE TRANSPORTATIO
DEPARTMENT
AND THIS IS THE KIND OFf
INFORMATION THAT CAR COMPANIES,L
THEY DON'T LIKE GIVING OVER"
INFORMATION TO THE GOVERNMENT.
THEY WOULD RATHER BE ABLE TO RUN
THEIR OPERATIONS WITHOUT HAVIN
TO JUSTIFY WHAT THEY DO.
SO IT'S AN UNPRECEDENTED LEVEL
OF OVERSIGHT FOR A DETROIT
COMPANY.
AND IT WILL BE VERY INTERESTIN
TO SEE HOW THIS RELATIONSHIP
WORKS OUT.
>> AND IT DOESN'T SEEM THAT GM
IS FINISHED WITH ALL OF THIS
I MEAN, THERE'S STILLL
INVESTIGATIONS ONGOING.n
ARE THEY STILL POSSIBLY LIABLE
FOR CRIMINAL MALFEASANCE?
>> THERE'S A COUPLE OF
MILESTONES THAT WILL PROBABL
STILL HAPPEN HERE.
FIRST OF ALL, GENERAL MOTORS I
CONDUCTING ITS OWN INTERNA
INVESTIGATION AND IT HIRED
KENNETH FINEBERG, WHO
ADJUDICATED THE 9/11 VICTIMS
CASES.
HE WAS THE PERSON WHO LOOKED
INTO COMPENSATION IN THE BP OILL
SPILL AND HE'S EXPECTED TO MAK
A RECOMMENDATION AS TO WHETHER
GM SHOULD PAY THE FAMILIES O
THE VICTIMS.
POSSIBLY THERE WILL BE A JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT SETTLEMENT LIKE WEU
SAW IT TOYOTA, WHICH WAS $1.2"
BILLION AND TOYOTA ALSO ADMITTED
FAULT.
>> THE INVESTIGATION SEEMS TO
HAVE UNCOVERED A CULTURE, MORE
THAN A SPECIFIC PROBLEM.
HOW DO REGULATORS TACKLE THI
WITH THE PEOPLE WHO ARE ON THE
FRONT LINES?
>> WHAT'S FASCINATING ABOU
THIS, IT'S THE SECOND TIME THE
GOVERNMENT HAS HAD TO WADE INTO
GENERAL MOTORS TO FIX PROBLEMS
THAT PEOPLE SAW OVER YEARS, BU
WERE NEVER ADDRESSED
SO IF YOU REMEMBER BACK TO THE
BAIL-OUT IN 2009, ONE OF THE
THINGS THAT THE WHITE HOUSE TASK
FORCE DID WAS BASICALLY TELL
GENERAL MOTORS, YOU HAVEN'T BEEN
RUNNING YOUR OPERATIONS3
CORRECTLY.
THESE ARE THE SUGGESTIONS, I
GUESS SUGGESTIONS WITH A
BASEBALL BAT, THAT THEY HAD FOR"
GM.n
NOW HERE WE HAVE TRANSPORTATIO
DEPARTMENT BASICALLY SAYING, YOU
CAMOUFLAGED SAFETY INFORMATION
FROM 2009 FORWARD.
SO I THINK IT'S KIND OF A SA
SITUATION FOR GM THAT IT TAKES
OUTSIDE REGULATORS TO TELL THE
COMPANY TO RUN ITS OPERATION
THE WAY IT WAS SUPPOSED TO
>> ALL RIGHT, THANKS SO MUCH
>> MY PLEASURE
>>> AND NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE
SEGMENT, THE NATIONWIDE DEBATE
ABOUT THE USE OF TRAFFIC
CAMERAS.
MORE THAN 500 COMMUNITIES ACROSS
THE UNITED STATES NOW USE THEM
IN AN EFFORT TO SLOW DRIVERS
DOWN AND SAVE LIVES.
BUT SEVEN STATES HAVE NOW BANNED
THEIR USE, BELIEVING THESE SAM
CAMERAS DENY DRIVERS THEIR
RIGHTS AND INVADE THEIR PRIVACY.
THE BATTLE IS NOW PLAYING OUT IN
OHIO.n
NEWS HOUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDEN
RICK CARR TRAVELED THERE
RECENTLY AND REPORTS
>> Reporter: DRIVERS WHO RUN RED
LIGHTS KILL NEARLY 700 PEOPL
EVERY YEAR NATIONWIDE.
SUE AND PAUL OBER HOUSER REFUS
TO CALL THOSE CRASHES ACCIDENTS.
>> MOST OF THOSE ARE
INTENTIONALLY PEOPLE THINK
THEY'RE GOING TO GET AWAY WITH
IT, AND THEY RUN THE RED LIGHT
THEY NEVER THINK THEY'RE GOING
TO KILL A PERSON
>> THEIR DAUGHTER SARA WAS
KILLED BY A DRIVER WHO RAN A RED
LIGHT IN 2002.
SHE WAS 31 YEARS OLD AND THE
MOTHER OF TWO.
A HIGH SCHOOL CHEMISTRY TEACHER"
AND BASKETBALL COACH IN OXFORD
OHIO
SHE WAS ON HER WAY TO &
TEACHER-TRAINING WORKSHOP ON A
SATURDAY MORNING WHEN HER LIGH
TURNED GREEN
>> IT WAS A YOUNG MAN, 21 YEAR
OLD, HE RAN THE RED LIGHT GOIN
55 MILES AN HOUR AND HE T BONE
HER CAR AND SARA WAS KILLE
INSTANTLY.
>> THEY BELIEVE THERE'S A WAY TO
PREVENT CRASHES LIKE THE ONE
THAT KILLED THEIR DAUGHTER
AUTOMATED CAMERAS THAT KEEP AN
EYE ON INTERSECTIONS 24/7.
SO EVEN WHEN POLICE AREN'T
THERE, DRIVERS THINK TWICE
BEFORE RUNNING THE LIGHT.n
THE PROOF THAT THEY WORK IS &
40-MINUTE DRIVE FROM THEIR
FARMOUS IN OHIO STATE CAPITAL.
>> THE CITY OF COLUMBU
INSTALLED ITS FIRST RED LIGH
CAMERA AT THIS INTERSECTION IN
2006.n
SINCE THEN IT'S PUT CAMERAS AT
MORE THAN THREE DOZEN OTHER"
INTERSECTIONS.
AND AT THOSE LOCATIONS, SIDE
IMPACT CRASHES ARE DOWN BY 74%
>> WE HAVE SIGNIFICANTLY ALTERED
DRIVER BEHAVIOR FOR THE GOOD
HERE IN COLUMBUS, OHIO
>> HE'S THE CITY'S SAFET
DIRECTOR
>> DO WE HAVE LESS FOLKS TRYIN
TO BET THE YELLOW IN RUNNING RED
LIGHTS?
THE ANSWER IS ABSOLUTELY
WE HAVE OVER 70% LESS CITATIONS3
THAN WE USED TO.
>> COLUMBUS DRIVERS HAVEN'
TURNED INTO ANGELS
BUT WHEN ONE DOES RUN A RE
LIGHT, AT AN INTERSECTION WITH
CAMERAS, IT'S CAPTURED IN
12-SECOND VIDEO CLIP
>> YOU'LL NOTE THE RED LIGHT HAS
BEEN RED FOR A NUMBER OF SECONDS
PRIOR TO THE CAR COMING INTO THE
INTERSECTION
AND THE DRIVER JEOPARDIZIN
EVERYONE
>> THE CAMERAS SEND THOSE VIDEOS
AND PHOTOS OF THE VEHICLE FROM
BEHIND TO A PRIVATE CONTRACTOR
IT IDENTIFIES WHO OWNS THE CAR
AND SENDS THAT INFORMATION BACK;
TO THE COLUMBUS POLICE
DEPARTMENT
THEN COPS LIKE LIEUTENANT BREN
MOLE REVIEW THE EVIDENCE
>> IS HE SAFE?
RIGHT THERE.
I'M GOING TO SAY HE MADE A SAF
TURN
HE DID LOOK, HE WAS IN CONTROL
OF HIS VEHICLE
THERE WAS NO PEDESTRIANS AND NO
OTHER CROSS VEHICULAR TRAFFIC.
I'M GOING TO REJECT THAT
>> OKAY.
>> IF IT'S LIKE BASEBALL, IF
IT'S A TIE, THE RUNNER GETS TH
ADVANTAGE.
SO IF IT'S A TIE AND I CAN'T
REALLY TELL, WE'LL GIVE THEU
ADVANTAGE TO THE PERSON RUNNIN
THE LIGHT.
>> IT'S GIVING THEM THE BENEFI
OF THE DOUBT, BASICALLY.
>> RIGHT
IT'S FOR SAFETY, IT'S NOT ABOU
REVENUE FOR ME
THIS CITY IS NOT GOING TO
COLLAPSE IF I DON'T WRITE &
TICKET, OR IF I DON'T HIT AN
ACCEPT VERSUS REJECT ON HERE
>> THE COMP MAILS CITATIONS TO
DRIVERS WHO CAN PAY THE FINE OR"
REQUEST A HEARING.
>> THE CONTRACTOR KEEPS ABOU
30%.
>> THE COMPANY UP FRONTS ALL THE
MONEY IN EXCHANGE, THEY RECEIV
A PERCENTAGE
IT ALLOWS US, AS A DIVISION OF
POLICE, TO CONCENTRATE, QUIT
FRANKLY, ON MORE VIOLENT CRIME.n
>> STUDIES OF RED LIGHT CAMERAS'
EFFECT ON CRASHES AREN'T
CONCLUSIVE
MOST SAY THEY CUT DOWN ON RIGH
ANGLE CRASHES WHICH TEND TO BE
SEVERE
BUT SOME SAY THEY LEAD TO MORE
CRASHES.
DRIVERS WHO SLAM ON THE BRAKES
MAY BE GETTING INTO MORE REAR"
END COLLISIONS
EITHER WAY, A LOT OF MOTORISTS
JUST DON'T LIKE TRAFFIC CAMERAS.
>> THIS IS PROBABLY THE MOST
CONTROVERSIAL SUBJECT MATTER
I'VE EVER DEALT WITH IN MY
20-PLUS YEARS IN GOVERNMENT.
>> BUT THEY DON'T JUST WATCH OUT
FOR RED LIGHT RUNNERS.
THEY'RE USED TO NAB SPEEDERS
>> SOME COMMUNITIES USE THESE AS
SPEED TRAPS.
>> SPEED CAMERAS NEED TO B
CALIBRATED REGULARLY
AND THE VIDEOS THEY CAPTURE JUST
SHOW CARS DRIVING AWAY, WHIC&
ISN'T AS CONVINCING AS A CAR
DRIVING THROUGH A LIGHT THAT'S
RED.
OTHER OHIO MUNICIPALITIES HAVE
DEPLOYED THEM MORE AGGRESSIVELY.
CINCINNATI.n
THAT'S ONE MAIN DRAG THROUGH
TOWN AND THE POLICE CHIEF HA
SAID THAT DRIVERS USED TO FL
THROUGH HERE.n
BUT HE DIDN'T HAVE ENOUG&
OFFICERS TO SIT ONE HERE TO
ISSUE TICKETS.
AFTER A FEW ACCIDENTS, THE TOW
VOTED TO INSTALL AUTOMATIC SPEED
ENFORCEMENT CAMERAS.
WITHIN A FEW MONTHS, THAT LED TO
THOUSANDS OF CITATIONS AND
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS
IN FINES.n
>> MOTORISTS FILED A CLASS
ACTION LAWSUIT ARGUING THATD
THOSE FINES VIOLATED THEIR DUE
PROCESS.
>> WITH SPEED CAMERAS AND RE
LIGHT CAMERAS, YOU'RE GUILTY
UNTIL PROVEN INNOCENT.
AND THAT'S NOT RIGHT
THAT FONDS ME AS A LAWYER.
IT OFFENDS ME AS A CITIZEN AND
AND IT FONDS OFFENDS ME AS A
AMERICAN
MICHAEL ALLEN REPRESENTED THOSEU
DRIVERS.
>> WHEN SOMEBODY CHALLENGES &
SPEEDING CITATION, THAT POLICE
OFFICER HAS TO RAISE HIS RIGHT
ARM AND TESTIFY THAT THE DEVIC
HE USED WAS PROPERLY CALIBRATED,
THAT HE IS PROPERLY TRAINED,
THAT HE IS CERTAIN THAT TH
PERSON THAT IS CHARGED IS TH
PERSON THAT WAS DRIVING TH
VEHICLE.
YOU DON'T HAVE THESE IN TH
SPEED CAMERA CASES
>> THE COUNTY JUDGE AGREED
HE CALLED IT A HI-TECH GAME OF
THREE CARD MONTY, A SCAM THE
MOTORISTS CAN'T WIN.
HE ORDERED THE FINE PAID BACK.
GENERATING INCOME WAS WHY THEY
INSTALLED THE CAMERAS IN THE
FIRST PLACE, ACCORDING TO ALLEN.
>> IT'S ALL ABOUT REVENUE.
YOU'RE SEEING A TREND IN I
COUNTRY ABOUT POLICING FOR
PROFIT.n
THAT'S NOT WHAT LAW ENFORCEMEN
IS ABOUT
>> COULD YOU LOOK AT THE OBER"
HOUSERS AND MAKE AN ARGUMENT
WITH THE TWO PEOPLE WHOS
DAUGHTER WAS KILLED?
>> I THINK I COULD
I'M COULD DO IT RESPECTFULLY
BUT YOU SEE SO MANY TIMES IN THE
CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM WHER
YOU HAVE THE FAMILIES OF PEOPL
THAT HAVE SUFFERED HORRIBL
TRAGEDIES AND LEGISLATORS WILL
RUSH TO CHANGE LAWS BECAUSE OF
THAT.n
AND AT THE END OF THE DAY, THOSE
LAWS ACTUALLY AR
COUNTERPRODUCTIVE AND CONTRARY
TO DUE PROCESS
THAT'S NOT THE WAY TO MAKE
POLICY
THAT'S NOT THE WAY TO LEGISLATE.
>> ALLEN WON AN INJUNCTION
AGAINST ANOTHER TOWN AND HE'S3
FILED A THIRD LAWSUIT AGAINSTD
THE CITY OF DAYTON.n
THEY'VE INTRODUCED A BILL THAT
WOULD BAN CAMERAS.
>> RON HOWE CALLED HIMSELF A
DARLING OF THE TEA PARTY
DALE MALLORY REPRESENTS INNER"
CINCINNATI AND CALLS HIMSELF A
LIBERAL DEMOCRAT
THEY AGREE CAMERAS VIOLATE DUE
PROCESS AND ARE PRIMARIL
INTENDED TO GENERATE REVENUE.n
BUT THEY'RE ALSO CONCERNED ABOUT
DRIFRS' PRIVACY.
>> THE NSA SPYING ON ALL YOUR"
PHONE CALLS AND YOUR COMPUTER"
WORK
WE HAVE TOO MUCH
IF YOU OWN THAT STORE ACROSS THE
STREET AND YOU WANT A CAMERA
OVER THERE TO SEE WHO'S COMING
IN YOUR STORE, THAT'S FINE B
ME
BUT THE GOVERNMENT HAS NO RIGH
TO BE SPYING ON AMERICAN
CITIZENS
>> MALLORY BELIEVES POLICE LIK
TRAFFIC CAMERAS BECAUSE THEY
GENERATE REVENUE, EVEN WHENn
THEY'RE RELUCTANT TO USE CAMERAS
TO FIGHT OTHER CRIMES.
>> WE WANTED CAMERAS FOR DRU
DEALING, FOR REAL SERIOUSL
CRIMES, AND THEY SAID, WELL, YOU
CAN USE THAT CAMERA, BUT IF &
GUY HAS CRACK IN HIS HAND, WEU
CAN IDENTIFY IT, BUT AN OFFICER"
HAS TO BE THERE TO CONFIRM IT.
>> MALLORY SAYS THE FIRMS THAT
INSTALL THE CAMERA AND TAKE &
PERCENTAGE OF THE REVENUE THEY
GENERATE, HAVE ORGANIZED A LOBBY
CAMPAIGN AGAINST THEIR BILL.
PAUL AND SUE OBER HOUSER ARE
AGAINST THAT EFFORT.
BUT THEY ARGUE THAT SUPPOR
HASN'T CHANGED THEIR MESSAGE ONE
BIT.
>> WE'RE NOT RICH.
WE CAN'T GO OUT AND FUND OUR
MESSAGE.
AND WHAT BEING WITH THEU
COALITION HAS DONE, IT'S GIVEN
US THE ABILITY TO ACCESS DAT&
FROM ALL OVER THE COUNTRY.
AND ALSO TO SEND LETTERS TO THEU
EDITORS ALL OVER THE COUNTRY,L
WHICH WE WOULD NOT HAVE HAD AN
WAY OF DOING OTHERWISE
>> LAST YEAR, WE KILLED ALMOST
700 PEOPLE RUNNING RED LIGHTS.
INNOCENT PEOPLE.
ONE AT A TIME.
AND NOBODY WANTS TO DO ANYTHIN
ABOUT IT
>> THE BILL TO BAN TRAFFIC
CAMERAS HAS PASSED THE OHIO
HOUSE AND IS NOW WAITING FOR A
SENATE VOTE.
THE OBER HOUSERS SUPPORT ANn
ALTERNATIVE THAT WOULD SET
STANDARDS REQUIRING POLICE TO
REVIEW CAMERA EVIDENCE IN AN
APPEAL PROCESS
>> LEARN ABOUT HOW POLICE AR
MONITORING THE PUBLIC IN OTHER
COMMUNITIES.
VISIT NEWS HOUR.PBS.ORG.
THIS IS PBS "NEWS HOUR WEEKEND""
SATURDAY
>>> TOPEKA, KANSAS, WILL B
MARKING A SUPREME COURTD
DECISIONS 60th ANNIVERSARY
TONIGHT.
IT'S THE CITY WHOSE BOARD OF
EDUCATION WAS THE TARGET OF THEU
FAMOUS CASE, BROWN VERSUS BOARDD
OF EDUCATION, THAT DESEGREGATEDD
THE NATION'S SCHOOLS.n
WE ASKED OUR NETWORK OF STUDENTD
REPORTING LABS ACROSS THEU
NATION, IF SCHOOL INTEGRATIONn
SHOULD BE A NATIONAL GOAL TODAY.
HERE'S A SAMPLING OF WHAT THEY
HAD TO SAY
>> INTEGRATION SHOULD BE A GOA
FOR EVERY SCHOOL IN AMERICA,
BECAUSE IT ALLOWS STUDENTS TO BE
EXPOSED TO THE DIVERSITY THEY'LL
EXPERIENCE IN THE REAL WORLD AND
GIVES THEM A CHANCE TO CONNECT
WITH DIFFERENT PEOPLE IN HIG&
SCHOOL.n
>> PEOPLE NEED TO LEARN THAT
THEIR SKIN COLOR IS NOT THE ONLY
ONE IN THE WORLD
OUTSIDE OF SCHOOL, YOU MEE
PEOPLE WITH DIFFEREN
BACKGROUNDS AND WHY KEEP A
OPPORTUNITY LIKE THAT AWAY FRO
THEM BY KEEPING THEM IN &
SEGREGATED SCHOOL.
>> WE HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY TO GO
TO A SCHOOL THAT'S INTEGRATED,
BUT PEOPLE FEEL MORE COMFORTABLE
WITH THEIR OWN CULTURE
>> IT'S BETTER TO DIVERSIFY AN
LET PEOPLE MEET NEW PEOPLE SO
THEY DON'T BECOME RACIST WHE
THEY'RE OLDER.
>> I BELIEVE THAT TECHNOLOGY AND
ADVANCED RESOURCES SHOULD BE
INTEGRATED INTO SCHOOLS BEFORE
DIFFERENT GROUPS OF CULTURES AND
PEOPLE
>> INTEGRATED SCHOOL SHOULD BE A
NATIONAL GOAL BECAUSE DIVERSIT
IN SCHOOLS PREPARES KIDS FOR A
FUTURE WORK ENVIRONMENT BY
WORKING WITH DIFFERENT RACES
>> IF YOU ALLOW SCHOOL TO GO TO
WHATEVER SCHOOL THEY WANT AN
DON'T SEGREGATE, IT DOESN'T NEED
TO BE AN ISSUE.n
>> I THINK IT'S REALLY HELPFUL
FOR SCHOOLS FOR MORE DIVERSE
>> I THINK PEOPLE HAVE SO MUCH
TO GIVE DEPENDING ON WHERE THE
COME FROM AND WHO THEY ARE AND
YOU CAN LEARN SO MUCH FROM
SOMEONE DEPENDING ON THEIR RACE,
AND ETHNICITY AND BACKGROUND
>> JOIN US ON AIR AND ONLINE
TOMORROW
SOUTH AFRICA WAGES WAR ONn
POACHERS, TARGETING THE WORLD'
LARGEST POPULATION OF RHINOS
>> YOU'RE A SOVEREIGN COUNTRY.
YOU HAVE ARMED THIEVES ENTERIN
YOUR COUNTRY, ARMED POACHERS
ILLEGALLY.
THEY SQUANDER OUR RESOURCES ANDD
EXIT ILLEGALLY AGAIN
>> THAT'S IT FOR PBS "NEWS HOUR"
WEEKEND.""
THANKS FOR WATCHING.